#1 Experiment Background

S1:
Hello everyone, my name is wenbin. I'm now doing my bachalor 
thesis project here for 4 months. Today I'm going to talk
about the "simulation of spike-induced field in cortex"

S2:
These two pictures are from Mark's experiment. When inserting
a synaptic input to the neuron, you can see that the closer 
the dendrite to soma is, the bigger its amplitude is. So there's 
a correspondence between neuronal morphology and LFP.

S3,S4:
The last slide is only for a single neuron. And in turtle’s
cortex, when stimulating a single neuron to fire, 
the action potential will propagate around and interacts with
dendrites of other neurons. These neurons will receive the synaptic
inputs from the interaction points. Finally, we can record the
extracellular potential on MEA. Our current goal is to reproduce
the experiment results by simulation. If the results fit well,
that means our model is a good model and through this model
we can understand the underlying mechanism of the entire process.

S5: (explain more detail)
How do we do the simulation?
The first problem is how to make a biological neuron digital.
We can dissect the neuron into many compartments. Each compartment
is like a small circuit with capacitor, resistor and its power
supply. The specific value of resistance, conductance and other properties
are determined by the biophysical properties. Such as the radius and the type of neuron.
Then we connect these compartments together to form a complete circuit. 
Now we get a digital neuron.


#3 Simulation results 
S6:
We tested how different z-pos of synaptic input affect the
extracellular potential recorded on MEA.
The above one is done by choosing dif z-pos of synaptic input
(hold x,y same). We can see as the relative z-pos become
larger, the extracellular potential increases. And notice that
there's a porality change around 80 microns. Why? (Why does the 
extracellular potential like this?)

S7 (return current)
Because the conservation of charge. So there must be 
some return currents when there is a synaptic input.
And among these return currents, soma's return current is the biggest one.
So when the z-position is close to soma, the synaptic input
current will dominate the contribution to extracellular potential
on MEA, however, as the z-position of synaptic input goes up,
the return current of soma will eventually dominate the 
contribution to the extracellular potential. That's why
there's a porality change and why the amplitude of extracellular potential
change like that in the figure.


